# Git Practice
[Alzheimer’s Prediction May Be Found in Writing Tests by Gina Kolata](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/01/health/alzheimers-prediction-speech.html?searchResultPosition=1)

This article discusses the research being conducted by IBM which is using artificial intelligence to identify writing patterns from patients that may indicate the onset of neurological diseases. IBM has been able to use their artificial intelligence program to predict which patients will develop Alzheimers with 75% accuracy. It is so interesting to see the intersection of linguistics and computer science working hand in hand to better understand cognitive illnesses. Neurological diseases, especially Alzheimers, are incurable therefore making this research into predicative analysis so important; this ability to detect these subtle changes in language using A.I. long before the time of diagnosis can not only help people prepare for the changes to their lives, but also help slow the progression of the disease once these measures are hopefully discovered. The research is also branching out to using smartphones to help in the effort of identifying onset changes by asking patients to record themselves talking over a period of time in order to identify changes in speech patterns as well. Another fascinating discovery was that these language patterns caused by these changes to the brain were not only unique to English but are universal. More research is needed in order to further hone in on who are at risk but this breakthrough with the aid of A.I. brings scientists a step closer to closing the gap on the mystery surrounding neurological diseases.
<br>
## Edit by Almazhan Abdukhat: <br>
Generally, I agree with the points made above - indeed, the potential of A.I. to predict Alzheimers might be invaluable given that currently there is no cure for the disease. Additionally, from my own observation and comments from other readers, one issue to address might be that the reasons behind poor writing patterns and *poverty of speech* can vary significantly. For example, people who do not have sufficient practice in academic writing (e.g. no school experience), people who are still learning the language etc. might initially have difficulty composing complex, grammatically correct sentences. However, after practicing/learning, they can potentially improve their linguistic ability; does it mean that they will have lower risk of developing Alzheimers in the future? It seems that linguistic degradation has to be analyzed over time and some variables (e.g. education) have to be controlled. At
Overall, the research seems indeed very promising, especially if testing mechanisms can be easily integrated (e.g. via phones). 

